add: docs for storybook (#9120)
gatsbyjs/gatsby: docs/docs/visual-testing-with-storybook.md

---
title: Visual Testing with Storybook
---

> Knowing your components look as intended in every permutation is not only a great way to test them visually, but also provides "living documentation" for them. This makes it easier for teams to 1) know what components are available to them in a given project and 2) what props those components accept and what all of the states of that component are. As your project grows over time having this information available will be invaluable.

Reviewer: I would add a quick one line defining what Storybook is

Reviewer 2: Could just copy directly from https://storybook.js.org/basics/introduction/

## Setting up your environment

> In order to set up Storybook you will need to install a few dependencies and then do some custom configuration to make Storybook work with your Gatsby environment. The first thing is to get the Storybook CLI installed if you don't have it already.

Reviewer 3: This can be less wordy, perhaps:
```suggestion
To set up Storybook you need to install dependencies and do some custom configuration. First, install the Storybook CLI.
```

```sh
cd my-awesome-gatsby-project
getstorybook
```

The `getstorybook` command will then bootstrap the basic config necessary to run Storybook for a React project. However, since this is for a Gatsby project, we need to update the default Storybook configuration a bit so that we don't get errors when trying to use Gatsby specific components inside of the stories.

To update your Storybook config open `.storybook/config.js` and add the following before the `configure` method at the bottom of the file.

```js
// Gatsby's Link overrides:
// Gatsby defines a global called ___loader to prevent its method calls from creating console errors we override it here
global.___loader = {
  enqueue: () => {},
  hovering: () => {},
}

// Gatsby internal mocking to prevent unnecessary errors in storybook testing environment
global.__PATH_PREFIX__ = ""

// This is to utilized to override the window.___navigate method Gatsby defines and uses to report what path a Link would be taking us to if it wasn't inside a storybook
window.___navigate = pathname => {
  action("NavigateTo:")(pathname)
}
```

> Next we need up make some adjustments to Storybook's default `webpack` configuration so that we can tranpile Gatsby source files, as well as ensure we have all the necessary `babel` plugins we need to transpile Gatsby components.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Next we make some adjustments to Storybook's default `webpack` configuration so we can transpile Gatsby source files, and to ensure we have the necessary `babel` plugins to transpile Gatsby components.
```

Create a new file called `webpack.config.js` in the `.storybook` folder created by the Storybook CLI. Then place the following in that file.

```js
module.exports = (baseConfig, env, defaultConfig) => {

>   // Transpile Gatsby module because Gastby includes un-transpiled ES6 code.

Reviewer 4: We have an open issue for this. Maybe I'll fix this today and add a transpiled `main` field?

See #8821

Reviewer 4: Once #9123 is merged, we can remove this 🎉

Reviewer 4: Fixed!

Reviewer 5: #9123 did fix my situation where i was unit testing in a context that needed common-js, but i'm still seeing raw jsx in the `module` defined by the `gatsby` package, which [causes problems](https://travis-ci.org/dsmjs/components/jobs/442698875#L730-L744) for my storybook instance that was working before upgrading to v2. 

normally `module` is still transpiled to some degree so that that it is at least valid js (which jsx is not) at some lowest common denominator, but still uses es module `import`/`export`. i normally handle producing es-module for `module` and common-js for `main` [using rollup](https://github.com/dsmjs/components/blob/master/rollup.config.js). if this were in place, there shouldn't be a need to transpile the `gatsby` package further when depending on it in a storybook project, etc.

if the team would be open to a build step that would produce both `main` and `module` with a process similar to this, i'd be happy to contribute. thoughts?

  defaultConfig.module.rules[0].use[0].loader = require.resolve("babel-loader")

  // use @babel/preset-react for JSX and env (instead of staged presets)
  defaultConfig.module.rules[0].use[0].options.presets = [
    require.resolve("@babel/preset-react"),
    require.resolve("@babel/preset-env"),
  ]

  // use @babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties for class arrow functions
  defaultConfig.module.rules[0].use[0].options.plugins = [
    require.resolve("@babel/plugin-proposal-class-properties"),
  ]

  return defaultConfig
}
```

Once you have this configured you should run Storybook to ensure it can start up properly and you can see the default stories installed by the CLI. To run storybook:

```sh
npm run storybook
```

Storybook CLI adds this command to your `package.json` for you so you shouldn't have to anything other than run the command. If Storybook builds successfully you should be able to navigate to `http://localhost:6006` and see the default stories supplied by the Storybook CLI.

## Writing stories

A full guide to writing stories is beyond the scope of this guide, but we'll take a look at creating a story.

> First, create the story file. Storybook looks for all files with a `.story.js` extension and loads them into Storybook for you. Generally you will want your stories near where the component is defined, however since this Gatsby, if you want stories for your pages, you will have to create those files outside of the `pages` directory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
First, create the story file. Storybook looks for all files with a `.story.js` extension and loads them into Storybook for you. Generally you will want your stories near where the component is defined, however since this is Gatsby, if you want stories for your pages, you will have to create those files outside of the `pages` directory.
```
